A New Century Evangelion
Theatrical Version
Sections 2 and 3 of the East Wing
will close at 1800 hours.
All staff must vacate the area
by 1630.
Misato and Ayanami scare me.
Help me.
Help me, Asuka.
Hey, wake up. Hey...
wake up!
Hey, hey...
Asuka... Asuka...
Asuka!
Help me.
Please help me.
Help me!
Call me an idiot like you always do!
Hey!
I'm so fucked up.
All access to and from
Headquarters has been restricted?
We're on First Level Alert.
That doesn't make sense.
I thought Kaoru was the last Angel.
He was.
All the Angels have been defeated.
If we're all safe, what are we
doing on First Level Alert?
What's going to happen to
NERV and the Evas?
I wish Dr. Akagi was here.
NERV will probably be disbanded.
I don't know what they're
going to do with us.
All we can do is wait for the
Instrumentality Project to commence.
So mankind, a race of flawed
and incomplete separate entities,
has reached the end of
its evolutionary potential.
The Instrumentality Project
will manufacture the evolution...
of man's separate entities
into a single consummate being.
And the Committee won't use
NERV or Adam.
They'll use the Evas.
Just like Kaji said they would.
The time is at hand.
Without the Lance of Longinus,
we cannot use Lilith
to complete the Project.
Our only hope is to proceed
using Lilith's only true offspring,
Eva Unit 01.
That was not part of
SEELE's original plan.
Creating the Evangelion was the
pinnacle of mankind's existence.
Humanity must evolve and
shape this brave new world.
That was why we created
the Eva Series.
We need not cast aside
our human form...
to use Evangelion
as our own private Ark.
It's merely part of the process
to free us all for rebirth.
The fate of destruction
is also the joy of rebirth.
Through the sacrament
of death, God, and humanity,
all living beings will be united
and reborn as one.
Death creates nothing.
You deserve death.
Mankind exists because
it has the will to live.
That is the will of she
who chose to remain in the Eva.
So, that's what really happened
during Second lmpact.
They're on to me!
No, wait, something else.
It's begun.
We are under attack.
Transfer the left to the emergency
communications systems!
Use satellite feed if you have to!
Correct.
What's the right side status?
Negative. All outgoing network lines
are being systematically cut off!
They're going after the MAGI.
Data upload from
external terminals.
They're trying to hack
into the MAGI, sir!
Just as I thought.
Is it coming from the
MAGI 2 in Matsushiro?
No, there are 5 MAGI systems
working together.
So far I've identified the MAGI
from Germany, China, and the U.S.
SEELE is pooling all its resources.
Five MAGI against one.
Not good odds.
The fourth firewall
has been breached!
Locking the main database...
Negative!
The system is being overtaken!
They've breached the next level!
The backup system is inoperative!
This is bad.
If they capture the MAGI, they will
be able to occupy headquarters.
Let me guess.
They need help with the
MAGI's self-defense system.
Yes. Report to the
Second Command Center...
where you will be briefed
by Lt. Ibuki.
He expects the woman
he abandoned to jump when he calls.
Arrogant bastard.
A Level 2 Alert is in effect.
Status report.
Good morning. Tokyo 2
launched Special Order A-801.
801?
NERV's legal protection and
jurisdiction have been rescinded...
and command has been transferred
to the Japanese Government.
That was the only warning.
They tried to take the MAGI,
but we've managed to
contain the damage so far.
Ibuki here.
Dr. Akagi is currently installing
additional defense programs.
Ritsuko?!
Am I doing something stupid?
The interaction between
men and women is so illogical.
Isn't that right...
Mother?
Goura Ground circuit recovery 0.2%.
How much longer?
We should make it.
Dr. Akagi is amazing!
Just hacking into the MAGI?
Yeah, right.
I doubt they're going
to let us off that easily.
The MAGI was just foreplay.
They plan to launch an all-out
offensive against Headquarters...
and take the two Evas by force,
don't they?
Of course.
We have both Adam and Lilith.
No wonder the old men
are so nervous.
External feed to the MAGI
has been halted.
A Danang B-Type
Defense program is in place.
External access has been
cut off for the next 62 hours.
Mother.
I'll see you soon.
Ikari has installed a Type 666 firewall
on the MAGI's external feed circuits.
That's very difficult to breach.
Apparently we will have to forgo
acquisition of the Tokyo-3 MAGI.
I had hoped to settle this peacefully.
Launch the invasion forces
immediately!
All units move out as planned.
We have lost the radar feed
from sectors 8-17!
A large detachment of
Special Force Units...
has invaded the outer
defense perimeter!
Two more are approaching
from the Gotenba sector!
After all we've been through,
our final enemy is our fellow man.
All personnel go to
Level One battle stations.
Battle stations?!
But they're human, not Angels!
I wish they felt the same way.
What's happening?!
Hey!
What's wrong?
Transmission from
the southern hub has been...
The Daigatake tunnel
has been cut off!
Fire in the West No.5 entrance!
Hostile forces have entered Level 1!
The west side attack is a decoy!
If they're really after the Evas,
they'll go after the pilots first.
- Tell Shinji to stand by in Unit 01.
- Roger!
- Where's Asuka?
- Still in recovery room 303.
Get her into Unit 02!
There's no way she can
synchronize with Unit 02!
If they find her,
they're going to kill her.
If we put her in Unit 02,
at least she'll be safe.
Understood!
As soon as Asuka's in there,
hide Unit 02 at the bottom of the lake.
It's not the best hiding place,
but it's better than the cage.
- Where's Rei?
- Unable to locate!
Pilot of Unit 00 is missing!
She will be killed.
Find her, now!
Launching Unit 02
via gate number 8.
The Eva will remain underwater
at a depth of 70 meters.
Prepare to deploy Unit 01.
Station it in the Geofront.
We can't!
Shinji isn't there!
Oh, dear god...
Full lock down has been instigated,
starting at Level 2.
All non-combat personnel must evacuate
via route 87 immediately. I repeat...
The No.3 underground barricade
has been destroyed!
Enemy forces have begun
invading Level 2!
There's nothing we can do
to hold them off.
Our defeat has become inevitable.
Professor Fuyutsuki,
please see to the rest of this for me.
Yes, Commander.
Give my regards to Yui.
No response from Level 2!
Contact has been lost
with control room 77.
Internal monorail track 57
has been destroyed.
This is brutal!
I'd rather be fighting the Angels!
Of course. We're not used
to fighting human enemies.
Sever the red ones first.
Level 3 Block B has been invaded!
There's no stopping them!
Enemy presence confirmed
in Block F!
The Main bypass is under fire!
Seal off levels 1-3!
Order a full retreat!
Release Bakelite through all
passages up through section 803!
Right!
Commencing Bakelite release
in section 703,
thirty seconds to completion.
Commencing Bakelite release
in section 737...
Well, that should buy us some time.
Major Katsuragi!
Route 47 is completely blocked.
The third Unit is unable to advance.
Shinji is cut off!
All non-combat personnel
should avoid engaging the enemy.
These guys are pros,
so if you can't retreat
to Central Dogma...
you're better off just surrendering.
- Take charge of things here for me.
- Right.
Mt. Futagoyama has been secured.
This is harder than we thought.
We never get the easy jobs.
This is insane! The center wasn't
made to withstand invading armies.
We can barely hold off terrorists.
If the JSSDF launches a
full-scale attack, we're screwed.
Slowly but surely they've been
cutting our defense budget.
They've probably been planning this
since the very beginning.
Very possible...
Release the safety.
I can't.
I just can't shoot this thing.
Of course you can!
You've had basic training!
But I shot at targets,
not at other human beings!
Idiot!
It's kill or be killed!
Rei.
I knew I'd find you here.
The time has come.
Let's go.
Level 1 has been secured. Over.
Roger that. We are moving in on the
MAGI and the Level 2 Command Center.
We are currently
engaged in combat.
Commence cooling of the Fifth
Malbolgia sector immediately.
Terminate Eva Pilots on sight.
Execution of non-combat personnel
has been authorized.
Yanagihara and Shinjo units,
proceed to lower level.
We've located the Third Child.
Commencing termination.
Sorry, kid. Nothing personal.
Nothing personal here either.
Let's get you to Unit 01.
Come on.
Roger that.
We have the purple unit surrounded.
The Bakelite infusion
was not a problem.
Damn. They're trying to prevent
contact between Shinji and Unit 01.
We're running out of time.
This is it, Shinji.
Do you want to run away
or do you want to pilot the Eva?
If you sit there and do nothing,
then you're already dead!
Help me, Asuka... help me.
Hiding behind the skirts of
a little girl at a time like this?!
Giving up halfway is worse
than never trying at all!
Get up.
Move it!
I want to die.
I don't want to do anything.
Stop talking like a
stubborn little brat!
Like it or not, you're still alive!
Get moving and DO something!
You can die later.
Unimportant!
Securing Terminal Dogma is
your top priority, understand?!
They've destroyed everything else,
why don't they just nuke us
and get it over with?!
If we weren't sitting on top of
the original MAGI system,
they probably would have.
They probably need it in
as intact as they can get it.
I just hope they don't use
BC weapons.
Things could get pretty ugly.
That or N2 mines.
Speak of the devil...
They aren't holding anything back!
They're over doing it.
Why do they want
the Eva this badly?!
They plan to initiate Third lmpact...
using the Eva series
instead of the Angels.
15 years ago, the Second lmpact was
intentionally engineered by mankind,
because it was the only way
to minimize the potential damage.
They had to reduce Adam
to an embryonic state...
before the other Angels awoke.
You see, Shinji, mankind was
spawned from a being called Lilith,
just like Adam was.
We are the 18th Angel.
The other Angels are just
different possibilities of...
what we could have become.
Sadly, we can't coexist...
even though we are fundamentally
the same creatures.
Listen, Shinji. You have to destroy
the rest of the Eva Series.
It's the only way to stay alive.
The phone lines are all dead.
Nagano Prefecture, Neo Tokyo 2
Yes, sir. Missile impact was
Prime Minister's Official Residence
Executive Office Number 3
confirmed three minutes ago.
This Instrumentality Project
NERV was secretly researching...
trying to initiate Third lmpact
and destroy all of mankind.
The whole thing makes me sick.
Humanity is probably
the only creature...
capable of hating its own kind.
Well, then. I suppose
all we have left to do...
is destroy NERV Headquarters.
Should Germany or China
begin re-development?
No. We won't make
the same mistake twice.
Make sure no one can touch it
for the next 20 years, like Old Tokyo.
Surface heat has dissipated.
High pressure steam discharges
have also stopped.
All detachments' positions
have been confirmed.
Dogma Level 3 and the
purple unit are currently secured.
And the red one?
In the lake,
about 70 meters down.
We don't know
if the pilot is alive or dead.
I'm still alive...?
I don't want to die.
You're still alive...
You mustn't die yet...
I don't want to die.
You must live...
I won't let you die...
I don't want to die.
I will protect you...
You're still alive...
I don't want to die.
I won't let you die...
You mustn't die...
I don't want to die.
Please die with me!
Don't kill her...
I don't want to die.
You must live...
I DON'T WANT TO DIE!!!!
Mamma!
You've been here all along?
Mamma!!
- What is that?!
- Dear God!
Mamma... Mamma!
Now I understand!
The meaning of the AT Field!
You were always protecting me!
Always watching over me!
We were always together!
Mamma!
Eva Unit 02 has activated!
Asuka is okay! She's alive!
Asuka?!
The cable!
Focus your fire power on that cable!
Even without my umbilical cable,
I've still got 12 thousand plates
of fortified armor!
And I've got my AT Field!
There's no way I can lose!
Not to you bastards!
That loathsome Evangelion.
Once again,
our plans will go unrealized.
It seems we'll have to
fight fire with fire.
The Eva Series?
It's been completed?
They've dispatched all 9 units
equipped with S2 engines?
That seems a bit much.
Unless...
do they plan to start it here?!
Listen up, Asuka. I want you to
destroy the rest of the Eva series.
Shinji will be there
as soon as he can.
Hang in there.
So, we can get to Unit 01
through Access route 20, right?
Affirmative. We placed triple
protection on the power supply.
So long as you get there
in the next three minutes,
it'll take you directly to cage 7.
"Destroy the rest of the Eva Series, '
huh?
Is that any way to talk to someone
fresh out of the hospital?
Nine units in only
three and a half minutes...
so that's 20 seconds each.
Erste!
This is it.
They got away.
Target has not been terminated.
Should we pursue them?
Negative.
That area has been
targeted for demolition.
Pull back immediately.
Roger.
Well, that should
hold them off for a while.
Don't worry.
It's not as bad as it looks.
The power is still on.
There's still time.
Shinji, listen to me.
From now on,
you're on your own.
You'll have to make
your own decisions.
I... I can't. I'm no good.
I can't pilot Eva if all I do
is hurt and kill people.
I thought I had no choice
but to pilot Eva,
but I was just lying to myself.
I'm not worthy of piloting an Eva
because I don't understand anything!
I'm incapable of doing
anything good for anyone else.
I did something terrible to Asuka.
I killed Kaoru.
I'm a horrible person.
I'm dishonest and a coward.
All I ever do is hurt other people,
so I'd rather do nothing at all!
I'm not going to feel sorry for you.
If you don't like feeling pain,
then you can just sit here and die.
Crying isn't going to
solve anything, either!
You hate yourself, don't you?
That's why you hurt others.
Deep down you know
that you suffer more...
when you cause someone else pain,
than if you just let yourself get hurt.
But, Shinji, that was YOUR decision,
so that makes it a valid choice.
That was what you wanted,
so that makes it worthwhile.
Stop lying to yourself, and
realize that you DO have options.
Then accept the choices
you've made.
But you're not me.
You don't understand!
So what if I'm not you?!
That doesn't mean
it's okay for you to give up!
If you do, I'll NEVER forgive you
as long as I live.
I'm not perfect either.
I've made tons of stupid mistakes
and later I regretted them.
And I've done it
over and over again.
A cycle of hollow joy
and vicious self-hatred.
But even so, every time
I learned something about myself.
Please, Shinji.
You've got to pilot Eva and
settle this once and for all.
Find out why you came here.
Why you exist at all.
And when you've
found your answers,
come back to me.
Promise me.
See you soon.
That was a grown-up kiss.
We'll do the rest
when you get back.
If I had known
it would like end this,
I would have changed the carpet
like Asuka suggested.
Right, Pen Pen?
Kaji...
I did the right thing, didn't I?
Damn, they're persistent.
Of course that idiot Shinji
is nowhere to be found!
I've been waiting for you.
I'm sorry...
but I changed the MAGI's
programming without telling you.
A loving daughter's final request.
Mother, let's end it together.
It's not working
Why?!
ACCESS DENIED
Casper betrayed me?!
Mother, how could you chose
your lover instead of me?
Ritsuko Akagi.
I truly...
Liar.
What's happening up there?
Less than a minute left
in her power reserves.
At this rate, Asuka will...
I cannot be defeated!!
Mama is watching after me!
Mama?
Mother!
This is the last one!
The Lance of Longinus?
Internal power supply depleted.
Operational limit has been reached.
Unit 02 has gone silent.
What the...
The defeated Eva Series...
The Eva Series units
have reactivated!
Are they going to finish her off?
What's happening?!
I don't want to see this!
I can't watch!
Is that Unit 02?
I'll kill you. I'll kill you.
Berserker!
Stop it.
Asuka! Stop!!
I'll kill you. I'll kill you.
Shinji! Unit 02!
Asuka is... Asuka!!
I can't get to Eva.
There's nothing I can do.
Mother.
Unit 01 has finally awoken.
Evangelion Unit 01!
The devil himself.
Asuka...
To Be Continued...
I wish to express my HEARTFELT
gratitude to the cast, staff, friends,
and the five women who helped
bring this picture to its completion.
Thank you very much.
Hideaki Anno
I have already joined with Adam.
The only way
I will ever see my Yui again,
is through the forbidden fusion
of Adam and Lilith.
We're running out of time.
Your AT Field won't hold
it's shape for much longer.
Let us begin, Rei.
Release your AT Field,
the barrier of your mind.
Make our imperfect souls
whole again.
Discard this unnecessary
physical shape.
Merge all souls into one.
And then, take me to Yui's side.
EPISODE 26
My Purest Heart For You
Asuka.
Ikari.
There's an object approaching
at tremendous speed from Lunar space.
What the hell?!
It's not...
It's the Lance of Longinus!
At long last,
our dreams will be realized.
The original Lance of Longinus
has been returned to us.
We have fewer Units than we planned,
but we'll have to make do.
Bring forth the true form
of the Eva series.
The true form will
evangelize humanity.
Through indiscriminate death
and through prayer,
we will return to our original state.
And our souls will be at peace.
Let the sacrament begin.
Eva Unit 01 has been captured!
Ascending to 12,000 meters!
And still rising.
Those bastards!
Does SEELE plan to use
Unit 01 as a medium?
Eva Unit 01 has been marked
with the Holy Stigmata.
Let us restore the Tree of Life!
The Eva series have been
our faithful servants...
and this is the reason
they were created.
The Eva Series has unleashed
their S2 engines!
Dimensional values are inverting.
Numerical expression and
measurement is impossible!
It's an Anti-AT Field.
It's the same as
what happened 15 years ago.
Has Third lmpact actually begun?
The S2 engines have
reached critical limit.
We're unable to maintain
gravitational control.
Our mission is a failure.
Direct hit!
Surface ground layers are melting!
The second wave is eroding
the headquarters periphery!
The outer hull has been exposed!
These are only
physical shock waves!
Set absorbers on maximum.
It should hold.
Here to represent eternity...
The Red Earth Purification Ceremony.
First the Geofront is returned to...
its original form.
The Egg of Lilith,
source of all human life.
The Black Moon.
We no longer wish
to return inside her shell.
But that is for Lilith to decide.
It appears to have begun.
Now, Rei, it's time to reunite
me with Yui once more.
What?!
I am not a puppet.
But why?
Because I am not you.
Rei!
Please,
Wait! Rei!
I can't.
Ikari is calling me.
Rei!
I'm home.
"Welcome Home '
Rei.
An unidentified high energy object
from Terminal Dogma...
is approaching rapidly!
AT Field confirmed!
Pattern Blue!
Not an Angel?
Negative!
It's a... a human!
No!
NO!
Dammit...
...Dammit......
...Dammit......!
Ayanami?!
Rei...
Through the destruction of
the Ego of Eva Unit 01 's pilot,
humanity shall now be completed.
The Third Retribution is at hand.
The AT Fields of the Eva Series
are all resonating!
Resonation is increasing!
Have they begun merging with Rei?
Psychograph signal down!
Destrado has begun to manifest!
The pilot's ego won't be able
to take much more of this.
No more.
I can't take it anymore.
Is this better?
Have you been there
the whole time, Kaoru?
The solenoid graph is inverting!
His ego barrier is getting weaker!
AT Field is shifting to pattern red!
The Fruit of Life
is held by the Angels.
The Fruit of Wisdom
is held by man.
Eva Unit 01 now posses them both,
and, therefore, becomes God.
Now the Source of all souls,
the Tree of Life
has been formed again.
Will it be an Ark to save mankind
from the vacuum of Third impact?
Or is it the demon
that will destroy us all?
The fate of mankind now lies
in the hands of lkari's son.
Tell me,
have we done the right thing?
How should I know?!
This Rei is your heart.
She embodies
your hopes and your dreams.
What is it you wish for?
I see.
It's just like
when I first started playing the cello.
I thought if I came here,
I would find what I was looking for.
Hey, Shinji! C'mon!
Let's build a sand castle!
Look, Mama's here!
We gotta go now!
Bye!
Mama!
Enough already!
Even just the sight of you
gets on my nerves!
Because I'm just like you?
Mama!
Mama.
I wasn't able to be
a mother to Shinji in the end.
Let's do it.
Again? I thought you were
meeting your friend at school today.
Oh yeah, Ritsuko. Don't worry,
I've got plenty of time.
We've been hanging
around here for the past week.
Yeah, but I think I'm finally
starting to get the hang of it.
C'mere.
I guess
I just do things like that...
to prove I exist.
That's stupid!
It's just two depressed grown-ups
licking each other's wounds!
It's nice to feel needed,
even if it's just physically.
It makes me feel wanted,
and so it makes me happy.
It's just an easy way
to convince yourself...
that you're worth something.
Does Misato really
do things like that?
Yes, this is also me.
The me that exists
when two hearts are joined as one.
The me that
Shinji has never known.
Reality can be painful,
but it's something that
you must learn to accept.
When I grow up, does that mean
I'll do the same things Misato does?
You wanna kiss me?
You can't.
Why? Are you scared?
That stuff's not for kids.
Here I come!
You don't understand anything.
You just stay away from me!
I do understand.
You couldn't possibly,
you big JERK!
You really think
you can ever know me?
You think you can even help me?!
I can't believe
how arrogant you are!
You will NEVER understand!!
How can I ever understand you
if you won't say anything?
You never talk to me, but you
expect me to understand you.
That's IMPOSSIBLE!!
Did you ever really try, lkari?
Of course I did.
Idiot!
I know all about your little
jerk off fantasies about me.
Go ahead and
do it like you always do.
I'll even stand here
and watch you.
If I can't have you all to myself,
then I don't want anything from you.
Then, try being nice to me.
We are nice to you.
Liars!
You're just hiding
behind those smiles,
intentionally keeping
things ambiguous!
Because the truth causes
everyone pain...
because the truth is very,
very traumatic.
But ambiguity only
causes me more pain.
That's just an excuse.
But it scares me,
because I don't know if everyone
will stop wanting me again.
I feel awkward and uneasy.
Let me hear your voice!
Don't leave me!
Please care about me!
I want to help you, Asuka,
and I want to stay with you.
Then, don't do anything.
Don't come near me.
All you ever do is hurt me.
Asuka, help me.
You're the only one
that can help me!
Liar.
Anyone will do.
You don't care who it is!
You're afraid of Misato
and the First child!
You're afraid of
your mother and father, too!
So now you come running to me...
because that's the easiest way
to keep from getting hurt!
I need you to help me!
You never even loved yourself!
You're all you have, and
you never even learned to like yourself.
Pathetic.
Help me.
Somebody please help me.
Somebody help me!
Don't leave me alone!
Don't abandon me!
Please don't kill me!
No.
Episode One: Angel Attack
Episode Two: Unfamiliar Ceiling
Episode Three:
The Phone That Never Rings
Episode Four: Rain, After Running Away
Episode Five: Rei, Beyond Her Heart
Episode Six: Showdown In Tokyo-3
Episode Seven: Human Creation
Episode Eight: Asuka Strikes
Episode Nine: With One Accord In A Flash
Episode Ten: Magma Diver
Episode Eleven: In The Still Darkness
Episode Twelve:
The Value Of A Miracle Is
Episode Thirteen: Angel Invasion
Episode Fourteen: SEELE, Throne of Souls
Episode Fifteen: Lies And Silence
Episode Sixteen:
Sickness Unto Death, And...
Episode Seventeen: The Fourth Child
Episode Eighteen: The Judgement of Life
Episode Nineteen: A Man's Fight
Episode Twenty:
Form Of The Mind, Form Of Man
Episode Twenty One: The Birth Of NERV
Episode Twenty Two: At Least, Be Humane
Episode Twenty Three: Tear
Episode Twenty Four
The Final Messenger
Episode Twenty Five:
The End Of The World
No one understands me.
You never understood anything.
I thought this was supposed
to be a world without pain,
and without uncertainty.
That's because you thought that
everyone else felt the same as you do.
You betrayed me!
You betrayed my feelings!
You misunderstood
from the very beginning.
You just believed
what you wanted to believe.
Nobody wants me,
so they can all just die.
Then what is your hand for?
Nobody cares whether or not I exist.
Nothing ever changes,
so they can all just die!
Then tell me,
what is your heart for?
It would be better
if I never existed.
I should just die, too.
Then why are you here?
Is it okay for me to be here?
(Silence)
Pilot response
approaching infinite zero!
Eva Series and Geofront
are approaching the E layer...
and still rising!
Current altitude is
220,000 kilometers.
Now Entering F layer.
All Eva units are operational!
The Anti-AT Field from Lilith
is expanding and materializing!
Anti-AT Field
has exceeded critical limits!
If this continues,
individual entities will be unable
to maintain their separate forms!
The Chamber of Guf is open.
The door to both the beginning
and the end of the world...
is open at last.
This world is
overflowing with sorrow.
Its people are
drowning in emptiness.
Loneliness fills their hearts.
Ikari, did you also
finally get to see Yui again?
The AT Fields.
The AT Fields are all disappearing.
Is this the answer?
Is this what I was looking for?
Ritsuko?
Maya.
Ritsuko. Ritsuko. Ritsuko.
Ritsuko!!
The beginning and the end
are one and the same.
Yes, all is right with the world.
I've waited so long
for this moment to arrive.
I will finally be with you again, Yui.
When Shinji is near me,
all I ever do is cause him pain.
It was better
when I did nothing at all.
Were you afraid of Shinji?
I didn't believe
that anyone could love me.
I don't deserve to be loved.
So you were running away.
You rejected the others so that
you would never be hurt.
You were terrified by the
invisible bonds that people form.
You were afraid,
and so you closed your heart.
This is my retribution.
Forgive me, Shinji.
Ayanami Rei.
I hate you.
Don't call me anymore.
You bother me.
God, you're persistent.
Goodbye!
I wish you'd leave.
I have no interest in
getting back together with you.
Let's just be friends.
Do I even know you?
Look at you!
You really get on my nerves.
Who the hell are you?
I couldn't care less
whether you live or die.
I don't love you
"that way".
I don't want you in my life.
To be honest,
you get on my nerves.
Stop following me around.
I can't do this any more.
Let's break up.
I don't need you anymore.
Who would want to go out with you?
I don't need you,
I never did.
Go away.
You wimp.
If it's too painful,
you can always make it stop.
If you don't like it,
you can just run away.
Do you want to be at ease?
Do you want to feel peace of mind?
Do you want to
become one with me?
To have our
bodies and souls join as one?
I'd rather die than do it with you!
Hey...
What is it?
What are dreams?
Dreams?
Yes, dreams.
[Does it feel good?]
I don't understand.
I don't understand what reality is.
You can't bridge the gap
between your own truth...
and the reality of others.
I don't know
where to find happiness.
So you only find happiness
in your dreams.
Then this is not reality,
this world where no one exists.
No, it's only a dream.
Then I don't exist here either.
This convenient fabrication
is your attempt to change reality.
Is that wrong?
You were using
fantasy to escape reality.
Why can't I dream that I'm alone?
That is not a dream.
That's a substitute for reality.
So, where is my dream?
It is a continuation of reality.
But where is my reality?
It is at the end of your dream.
Ayanami.
Where are we?
This place is a sea of LCL.
The primordial soup of life.
A place with no AT Fields,
where individual forms do not exist.
An ambiguous world...
where you cannot tell
where you end and others begin.
A world where
you exist everywhere...
and yet you're nowhere,
all at once.
Is this death?
Not quite. This is a world
where we are all one.
This is the world you wished for.
But this isn't right.
This feels wrong.
If you wish for others to exist,
the walls of their hearts
will separate them again.
They will all feel fear once more.
Okay then.
Thank you.
I only felt pain
when I existed in that reality.
So I thought
it was alright to run away.
But there was nothing good
in the place I escaped to either.
Because I didn't exist there,
and so no one existed.
Is it alright for the AT Field
to cause you and others pain again?
I don't mind.
But what are
the two of you within my heart?
We are the hope...
that people will one day
be able to understand each other.
And we are the words,
"I love you. '
But that's just a pretense.
A selfish belief.
Like some kind of prayer.
It can't possibly last forever.
Eventually, I'll be betrayed,
and it will abandon me.
But still, I want to see them again,
because at the time,
I know my feelings were real.
Reality exists in a place unknown,
and dreams exist within reality.
And truth lies in your heart.
The contents of a person's heart
shapes their appearance.
And new images will change
their hearts and their forms.
The power of imagination is
the ability to create your own future,
and the power to create
your own flow of time.
But if people don't act
of their own free will,
then nothing will change at all.
So, you must regain your own
lost form by your own volition.
Even if it means
your words become lost...
or confused with
the words of others.
Anyone can return to human form...
as long as they are able to imagine
themselves within their own heart.
Don't worry.
All living creatures have the power
to be brought back to life...
and the will to go on living.
Anywhere can be paradise,
as long as you have the will to live.
After all, you are alive,
so you will always have
the chance to be happy.
As long as the Sun,
the Moon, and the Earth exist,
everything will be alright.
Will you be alright?
I still don't know
where my happiness lies.
I'll still think about
why I'm here,
and whether or not
it was good to come back.
But that's just
stating the obvious over and over.
I am myself.
But, Mother...
What will you do, Mother?
When man created Evangelion,
were we trying
to create a clone of God?
Yes. Humans can
only exist on this earth,
but the Evangelion
can live forever...
along with the human soul
that dwells within.
Even 5 billion years from now,
when the Earth, the Moon,
and the Sun are gone,
Eva will exist.
It will be lonely,
but as long as
one person still lives.
It will be eternal proof
that mankind ever existed.
Goodbye, Mother.
How disgusting.
__fin